
双语阅读 | 苹果CEO库克2018年杜克大学毕业典礼演讲：毕业生要无所畏惧
2018年6月20日
英语文摘


微信关注：田间小站 2018年5月13日苹果公司CEO蒂姆•库克（Tim Cook）来到阔别30年的母校——杜克大学，对2018届毕业生发表了一番慷慨激扬的演说。全文如下：
Hello, Blue Devils! It’s great to be back.
你们好，蓝魔们（蓝魔是杜克大学的昵称，源于杜克大学篮球队），很高兴回到母校。

It’s an honor to stand before you—both as your commencement speaker and a fellow Duke graduate.
很荣幸能够站在大家的面前，你们都是毕业典礼的主角，也是杜克大学最新的毕业生。
I earned my degree from the Fuqua School in 1988. In preparing for this speech, I reached out to one of my favorite professors from back then. Bob Reinheimer taught a great course in Management Communications, which included sharpening your public speaking skills.
我在1988年获得了福库商学院的学位。在准备这次演讲的时候，我与当时最喜欢的一位教授取得了联系。他的名字叫做鲍勃-雷宁海默（Bob Reinheimer），负责“管理交流”课程的教学，这门课程可以提高你的演讲技巧。
We hadn’t spoken for decades, so I was thrilled when he told me: he remembered a particularly gifted public speaker who took his class in the 1980s with a bright mind and a charming personality! He said he knew—way back then—this person was destined for greatness.
我们已经有几十年没有联系过了，所以当他告诉我可以在母校演讲之后，我很激动。他说他想起了一位在上世纪80年代教过的学生，不仅极具演讲天赋，而且还有聪明的头脑和迷人的个性。他说当时他就知道，这个人注定不平凡。
You can imagine how this made me feel. Professor Reinheimer had an eye for talent. And, if I do say so, I think his instincts were right. Melinda Gates has really made her mark on the world. I’m grateful to Bob, Dean Boulding, and all of my Duke professors. Their teachings have stayed with me throughout my career.
你能想象听到这些赞美后我是什么感觉，雷宁海默对人才一向有着敏锐的嗅觉，如果非要我评价的话，我觉得他的看法都是正确的。梅琳达-盖茨（Melinda Gates，比尔-盖茨的夫人）之前也来过这里演讲，我很感激鲍勃、迪安-博尔丁（Dean Boulding）和所有教过我的杜克大学教授。在我的职业生涯中，他们的谆谆教导一直陪伴着我。
梅琳达-盖茨和比尔-盖茨
I want to thank President Price, the Duke Faculty, and my fellow members of the Board of Trustees for the honor of speaking with you today. I’d also like to recognize this year’s honorary degree recipients. And most of all, congratulations to the class of 2018!
我想感谢普莱斯校长、杜克大学全体教员以及校董事会的同事们，很荣幸今天能在这里与你们汇聚一堂。我还想认识今年的荣誉学位获得者。最重要的，我要祝贺2018届毕业生。
No graduate gets to this moment alone. I want to acknowledge your parents, grandparents and friends here cheering you on, just as they have every step of the way. Let’s give them our thanks.
没有人能只靠自己取得成绩，因此我还要替大家感谢你们的父母、祖父母和为你们加油的朋友，就像他们每天陪伴你们一样，让我们向他们表示感谢。
Today especially, I remember my mother, who watched me graduate from Duke. I wouldn’t have been there that day—or made it here today—without her support. Let’s give our special thanks to all the mothers here today, on Mother’s Day.
今天让我想起了我的母亲，她看着我从杜克大学毕业。如果没有她的支持，我当年不会站在这里，今天更不会站在这里。今天是母亲节，在这里我们要特别感谢所有的母亲。
I have wonderful memories here. Studying—and not studying—with people I still count as friends to this day. Cheering at Cameron for every victory. Cheering even louder when that victory is over Carolina.
杜克大学给我留下了美好的回忆。在这里，我与直到现在还是好友的同学一起学习，享受其他大学生活，在Cameron篮球馆庆祝每一场胜利。当取得北卡罗来纳州胜利时，欢呼声更大。
杜克大学的Cameron篮球馆
Look back over your shoulder fondly and say goodbye to act one of your life. And then quickly look forward. Act two begins today. It’s your turn to reach out and take the baton.
深情地回顾大学时光，和人生的第一幕说再见。然后迅速展望未来，人生的第二幕从今天开始，轮到你们接过接力棒了。
You enter the world at a time of great challenge.
你们活在一个充满挑战的时代与世界。
Our country is deeply divided—and too many Americans refuse to hear any opinion that differs from their own.
我们的国家现在存在严重的分歧，太多的美国人拒绝听取任何与自己不同的意见。
Our planet is warming with devastating consequences—and there are some who deny it’s even happening.
我们的星球正在变暖，未来会有毁灭性的后果，但有人却否认这样的现实。
Our schools and communities suffer from deep inequality—we fail to guarantee every student the right to a good education.
我们的学校和社区都在遭受着严重的不平等待遇，不能保证每个学生都能接受良好的教育。
And yet we are not powerless in the face of these problems. You are not powerless to fix them.
但面对这些问题，我们并非无能为力，可以通过自己的努力去纠正它。
No generation has ever held more power than yours. And no generation has a chance to change things faster than yours can. The pace at which progress is possible has accelerated dramatically. Aided by technology, every individual has the tools, potential, and reach to build a better world.
没有哪一代人比你们拥有更强大的力量，没有哪一代人比你们能够更快的做出改变。我们现在实现目标的速度已经大幅缩短，在科技的帮助下，每个人都可以通过工具、潜能和自己的能力建设一个更美好的世界。
That makes this the best time in history to be alive. Whatever you choose to do with your life, wherever your passion takes you.
这是有史以来最好的时代，无论你选择如何对待自己的生活，也无论你将自己的激情燃烧在哪里。
I urge you to take the power you have been given and use it for good. Aspire to leave this world better than you found it.
我希望大家能好好利用自己的力量，这个世界远远要比你想象得更美好。
I didn’t always see life as clearly as I do now. But I’ve learned the greatest challenge of life is knowing when to break with conventional wisdom.
其实我也并非总是能够清晰的看清自己，但我明白，人生最大的挑战就是拥有知道何时打破传统的智慧与勇气。
Don’t just accept the world you inherit today. Don’t just accept the status quo.
不要只是一昧的接受今天你所生活的世界，不要安于现状。
No big challenge has ever been solved, and no lasting improvement has ever been achieved, unless people dare to try something different. Dare to think different.
没有任何重大挑战得到解决，也没有取得任何持久的改善，除非人们敢于尝试不同的东西。敢于“不同凡想”。
I was lucky to learn from someone who believed this deeply. Someone who knew that changing the world starts with “following a vision, not a path.” He was my friend and mentor, Steve Jobs.
我很幸运，能够从一位坚信这条理念的人那里学习很多东西。他之所以能够改变世界，就是因为他坚信要追随自己的理想，不能循规蹈矩。他就是我的朋友和导师，史蒂夫-乔布斯。
当年的库克和乔布斯
Steve’s vision was that great ideas come from a restless refusal to accept things as they are. And those principles still guide us at Apple today.
史蒂夫认为，伟大的思想来自于不安分的内心以及拒绝接受现有的规章制度。这些原则在今天依然指引着苹果的发展方向。
We reject the notion that global warming is inevitable. That’s why we run Apple on 100% renewable energy.
我们坚决反对全球变暖，这就是为什么我们要用百分之百的可再生资源来维持苹果的运营。
We reject the excuse that getting the most out of technology means trading away your right to privacy. So we choose a different path: Collecting as little of your data as possible. Being thoughtful and respectful when it’s in our care. Because we know it belongs to you.
我们拒绝以技术为借口，剥夺用户的隐私权。因此苹果选择了一条不同的道路：尽可能不去收集用户数据，我们非常尊重用户的权力和思想，因此我们知道这一切都属于用户。
In every way, at every turn, the question we ask ourselves is not ‘what can we do’ but ‘what should we do’.
在每一个方面、每一个转折点，我们要问自己的问题不是“我能做什么”，而是“我应该做什么”。
Because Steve taught us that’s how change happens. And from him I learned to never be content with things as they are.
因为史蒂夫告诉我们，这就是改变的力量，从他身上我学会了永远不要安于现状。
I believe this mindset comes naturally to young people…and you should never let go of that restlessness.
我相信这种心态对年轻人来说是顺其自然的事情，你们不要放弃这种年轻人的特质。
So today’s ceremony isn’t just about presenting you with a degree, it’s about presenting you with a question.
所以今天的仪式不仅仅是授予大家学位，而是向大家提出了一个问题。
How will you challenge the status quo? How will you push the world forward?
你们会如何挑战现状？如何推动世界的发展？
Fifty years ago today—May 13th, 1968—Robert Kennedy was campaigning in Nebraska, and spoke to a group of students who were wrestling with that same question.
50年前的今天，1968年5月13日，罗伯特-肯尼迪（Robert Kennedy）在内布拉斯加州参加竞选，同样与一群备受困扰的学生们进行了交谈。
罗伯特·肯尼迪
这是非常困难的时期，当时美国在越南处于战争状态，在美国国内的城市里也爆发了暴力和骚乱。一个月之前，马丁-路德-金（Martin Luther King）博士被害，这个国家蹒跚前行。
Those were troubled times, too. The US was at war in Vietnam. There was violent unrest in America’s cities. And the country was still reeling from the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King a month earlier.
Kennedy gave the students a call to action. When you look across this country, and when you see peoples’ lives held back by discrimination and poverty… when you see injustice and inequality. He said, you should be the last people to accept things as they are.
肯尼迪向学生们发起了行动的号召，当你们看到这个国家里许多人被贫困和歧视深深困扰、看到他们遭遇不公平和不公正的对待时，你应该是最后一个放弃的人。
Let Kennedy’s words echo here today. “You should be the last people to accept it.” Whatever path you’ve chosen, be it medicine, business, engineering, the humanities—whatever drives your passion. Be the last to accept the notion that the world you inherit cannot be improved.
肯尼迪的话在今天依然还萦绕在我们的脑海中。无论你选择什么道路，医学、商业、工程、人文学科，无论什么都会激发你的热情。即使这个世界无法改变，你也应该是最后一个放弃努力的人。
Be the last to accept the excuse that says, “that’s just how things are done here.” Duke graduates, you should be the last people to accept it. And you should be the first to change it.
杜克大学的毕业生们，除了最后一个放弃努力之外，还应该是第一个改变它的人。
The world-class education you’ve received—that you’ve worked so hard for—gives you opportunities that few people have.
你们所接受的都是世界一流的教育，你应该为之努力奋斗，因为并不是所有人都有这样的机会。
You are uniquely qualified, and therefore uniquely responsible, to build a better way forward. That won’t be easy. It will require great courage.
你们有这样的资格，因此也要承担这样的责任，来更好的努力。这并不容易，还需要很大的勇气。
But that courage will not only help you live your life to the fullest—it will empower you to transform the lives of others.
但这种勇气不仅能帮助你们拥有更充实的生活，而且还能改变别人的生活。
Last month I was in Birmingham to mark the fiftieth anniversary of Dr. King’s assassination. And I had the incredible privilege of spending time with women and men who marched and worked alongside him.
上个月，我在伯明翰纪念马丁-路德-金博士博士遇刺50周年。我获得了一个不可思议的特权，可以和那些曾在他身边工作的女人们和男人们在一起。
传送门：区别辨析fiftieth、fifty与fifties
马丁·路德·金
Many of them were younger at the time than you are now. They told me that when they defied their parents and joined the sit-ins and boycotts, when they faced the police dogs and firehoses, they were risking everything they had—becoming foot soldiers for justice without a second thought.
他们当中的许多人比你们现在还年轻。他们告诉我，当他们公然反对父母意志，加入静坐和抵制活动时，当他们面对警犬和消防水管时，他们冒着失去一切的危险，不加思索地成为了正义的战士。
Because they knew that change had to come.
因为他们知道变革必须到来。
Because they believed so deeply in the cause of justice.
因为他们对正义事业深信不疑。
Because they knew, even with all the adversity they had faced, they had the chance to build something better for the next generation.
因为他们知道，即使他们面临各种各样的逆境，他们也有机会为下一代创造更好的东西。
We can all learn from their example. If you hope to change the world, you must find your fearlessness.
我们所有人都可以从他们的例子中悟到一些东西。如果你希望改变世界，你必须找到你的无畏。
Now, if you’re anything like I was on graduation day, maybe you’re not feeling so fearless.
现在，如果你们就像我当年参加毕业典礼一样，也许也不会感到如此无所畏惧。
Maybe you’re thinking about the job you hope to get, or wondering where you’re going to live, or how to repay that student loan. These, I know, are real concerns. I had them, too. But don’t let those worries stop you from making a difference.
也许，你们在考虑希望得到的工作，或者想知道自己将住在哪里，或者如何偿还学生贷款。我知道，这些都是真正担忧的事情。我也遇到这些事情。但是，不要让这些担忧阻止你们做出改变。
Fearlessness means taking the first step, even if you don’t know where it will take you. It means being driven by a higher purpose, rather than by applause. It means knowing that you reveal your character when you stand apart, more than when you stand with the crowd.
无畏意味着勇敢迈出第一步，即使你不知道它会将你带往何处。也许驱使你的是更崇高的目标、也许是周围人的目光。当你独自一人的时候，才会看到自己真正的问题，而不是与大家站在一起的时候。
If you step up, without fear of failure… if you talk and listen to each other, without fear of rejection… if you act with decency and kindness, even when no one is looking, even if it seems small or inconsequential, trust me, the rest will fall into place.
如果勇敢站起来，就不要担心失败。要勇于与别人交流，不要害怕被拒绝。如果你内心深处拥有善良与正直，那么就算暂时没有人了解你、就算现在你无关紧要，相信我，属于你的时代早晚都会到来。
More importantly, you’ll be able to tackle the big things when they come your way. It’s in those truly trying moments that the fearless inspire us.
更重要的是，当你的时代来临时，就能找到解决问题的方法。在一次又一次的尝试中，正是无所畏惧的精神激励着我们。
Fearless like the students of Parkland, Florida—who refuse to be silent about the epidemic of gun violence, and have rallied millions to their cause.
就像佛罗里达州帕克兰学校的学生们一样，他们不惧怕枪支暴力带来的威胁，并没有保持沉默，而是为了目标团结了数百万人。
帕克兰学校的学生
Fearless like the women who say “me, too” and “time’s up”… women who cast light into dark places, and move us toward a more just and equal future.
还有那些勇于站出来对性骚扰“说不”的女性，她们的光辉照耀到了最黑暗的地方，让我们朝着更加公正和公平的未来前进。
Fearless like those who fight for the rights of immigrants… who understand that our only hopeful future is one that embraces all who want to contribute.
像那些为了争取自己移民权力而斗争的人一样，他们明白只要有所贡献，就能构建一个美好的未来。
Duke graduates, be fearless.
杜克大学的毕业生们，你们要无所畏惧！
Be the last people to accept things as they are, and the first people to stand up and change them for the better.
要成为最后一个放弃的人，也要成为第一个为更好的生活奋斗而站出来的人。
In 1964, Martin Luther King, Jr. gave a speech at Page Auditorium to an overflow crowd. Students who couldn’t get a seat listened from outside on the lawn. Dr. King warned them that someday we would all have to atone, not only for the words and actions of the bad people, but for “the appalling silence and indifference of the good people, who sit around and say, ‘Wait on time.’”
1964年，马丁-路德金在发表演讲时，台下坐满了人，那些没有座位的学生则拥挤在草坪上。那时路德金博士就告诫学生们，人们总有一天都要为自己的行为付出代价，作恶的坏人如此，那些沉默和冷漠的“好人”也是如此。
Martin Luther King stood right here at Duke, and said: “The time is always right to do right.” For you, graduates, that time is now.
马丁-路德金曾在杜克大学说过：“只要做对的事情，永远都是最好的时机。对你们来说，毕业生们，现在是时候行动了。”
It will always be now.
现在什么样子，将来就什么样子。
It’s time to add your brick to the path of progress. It’s time for all of us to move forward. And it’s time for you to lead the way.
为将来做好打算，让我们一起前进，并且带领别人共同进步。
Thank you—and congratulations, Class of 2018!
感谢你们，并祝贺所有2018届毕业生！
双语阅读英语演讲
