
英国新首相约翰逊就职演讲（中英对照双语全文）
2019年7月24日
英语文摘


微信关注：田间小站 Good afternoon.
大家下午好。
I have just been to see Her Majesty the Queen who has invited me to form a government and I have accepted.
我刚刚去见女王陛下，女王邀请我组建政府，我接受了。

I pay tribute to the fortitude and patience of my predecessor and her deep sense of public service.
我要向我的前任的坚韧和耐心，以及她对公共服务的深刻理解表示敬意。
But in spite of all her efforts, it has become clear that there are pessimists at home and abroad who think that after three years of indecision, that this country has become a prisoner to the old arguments of 2016 and that in this home of democracy we are incapable of honouring a basic democratic mandate.
但是，尽管她付出了所有的努力，事情已经很清楚，国内外存在一些悲观主义者，他们都认为，经过三年的犹豫不决，这个国家已经成为2016年旧论点的囚徒，在这个民主国家，我们无法做到履行基本的民主授权。
And so I am standing before you today to tell you, the British people, that those critics are wrong.
所以今天我站在你们面前告诉你们——英国人民，那些批评者错了。
The doubters, the doomsters, the gloomsters - they are going to get it wrong again.
怀疑论者、厄运论者、悲观主义者——他们又要再一次搞错了。
The people who bet against Britain are going to lose their shirts, because we are going to restore trust in our democracy and we are going to fulfil the repeated promises of Parliament to the people and come out of the EU on October 31, no ifs or buts.
那些赌英国输的人将输得只剩下裤衩，因为我们将恢复对我们民主的信任，我们将履行议会对人民的一再承诺，并于10月31日离开欧盟，没有任何如果或者但是。
And we will do a new deal, a better deal that will maximise the opportunities of Brexit while allowing us to develop a new and exciting partnership with the rest of Europe, based on free trade and mutual support.
我们将达成一项新的协议，一项更好的协议，最大限度地扩大脱欧机会，同时允许我们在自由贸易和相互支持的基础上与欧洲其他国家建立一种新的令人兴奋的伙伴关系。
I have every confidence that in 99 days' time we will have cracked it. But you know what - we aren't going to wait 99 days, because the British people have had enough of waiting.
我完全有信心在99天的时间里达到这个目标。但是你知道吗——我们不会等99天，因为英国人已经等待够久了。
The time has come to act, to take decisions, to give strong leadership and to change this country for the better.
现在是行动的时候，是做出决定的时候，是发挥强有力的领导力的时候，也是为了让这个国家变得更好的时候了。
And though the Queen has just honoured me with this extraordinary office of state my job is to serve you, the people.
虽然女王才刚刚授予我这个特殊的国家职务，但我的工作是为你们服务，为人民服务。
Because if there is one point we politicians need to remember, it is that the people are our bosses.
因为如果有一点是政治家们要记住的，那就是：人民是我们的老板。
My job is to make your streets safer - and we are going to begin with another 20,000 police on the streets and we start recruiting forthwith.
我的职责是让你们的街上更安全——我们将从增加两万名警察上街执勤开始，并立即开始招募。
My job is to make sure you don't have to wait 3 weeks to see your GP - and we start work this week, with 20 new hospital upgrades, and ensuring that money for the NHS really does get to the front line.
我的职责是确保你不必等3个星期去看你的家庭医生，我们本周就开始干这份工作，将对20个新的医院进行升级，并确保为国民保健服务的资金真正用在第一线。
My job is to protect you or your parents or grandparents from the fear of having to sell your home to pay for the costs of care.
我的职责是让你或你的父母或祖父母，不用担心为支付医疗费而不得不卖掉你们的房子。
And so I am announcing now - on the steps of Downing Street - that we will fix the crisis in social care once and for all with a clear plan we have prepared to give every older person the dignity and security they deserve.
因此，我现在宣布——在唐宁街的台阶上——我们将以一个清晰的计划，一劳永逸地解决社会保健危机，这个计划我们已经准备好了，要让每位老人享有他们应得的尊严和保障。
My job is to make sure your kids get a superb education, wherever they are in the country - and that's why we have already announced that we are going to level up per pupil funding in primary and secondary schools.
我的职责是确保你的孩子在国内任何地方都能得到非常的教育——这就是为什么我们已经宣布要提高中小学学生人均资助水平。
And that is the work that begins immediately behind that black door.
这就是在这扇黑色的门后面，我们马上就要开展的工作。
And though I am today building a great team of men and women, I will take personal responsibility for the change I want to see.
尽管我今天正在组建一支由优秀人士组成的伟大团队，但我将为我希望看到的变化承担个人责任。
Never mind the backstop - the buck stops here.
不要有任何顾虑，一切责任由我承担。
And I will tell you something else about my job. It is to be prime minister of the whole United Kingdom.
我还要告诉你们一些关于我工作的其他事情。也就是我作为整个联合王国的首相的工作。
And that means uniting our country, answering at last the plea of the forgotten people and the left-behind towns by physically and literally renewing the ties that bind us together.
这意味着要通过在各个层面上重塑英国人民之间的纽带，而让我们的国家团结起来，最后回应那些被遗忘的人民和村镇的诉求。
So that with safer streets and better education and fantastic new road and rail infrastructure and full fibre broadband we level up across Britain with higher wages, and a higher living wage, and higher productivity.
因此，凭借更安全的街道、更好的教育、出色的新公路和铁路基础设施以及全光纤宽带，我们要在整个英国以更高的工资、更高的生活工资和更高的生产力实现全面提升。
We close the opportunity gap, giving millions of young people the chance to own their own homes and giving business the confidence to invest across the UK.
我们要缩小机会差距，让数百万年轻人有机会拥有自己的房子，让企业有信心在英国各地投资。
Because it is time we unleashed the productive power not just of London and the South East, but of every corner of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
因为现在是我们释放生产力的时候了，不只是限于伦敦和东南部，而是包括英格兰、苏格兰、威尔士和北爱尔兰的每一个角落。
The awesome foursome that are incarnated in that red, white, and blue flag - who together are so much more than the sum of their parts, and whose brand and political personality is admired and even loved around the world.
体现在红白蓝旗下的四地组合令人惊叹，他们作为一个整体取得的成就远远超过了各自部分相加的总和，他们的品牌和政治个性在全世界广受钦佩甚至爱戴。
For our inventiveness, for our humour, for our universities, our scientists, our armed forces, our diplomacy for the equalities on which we insist - whether race or gender or LGBT or the right of every girl in the world to 12 years of quality education - and for the values we stand for around the world.
为了我们的创造力，为了我们的幽默，为了我们的大学，我们的科学家，我们的武装力量，为了我们坚持的平等外交——无论什么种族、性别、是否同性恋，或者世界上每一个女孩都应享有的12年优质教育的权利——以及为了我们在全世界范围内所坚持的价值观。
Everyone knows the values that flag represents.
每个人都知道这面旗帜所代表的价值观。
It stands for freedom and free speech and habeas corpus and the rule of law, and above all it stands for democracy.
它代表自由、言论自由、人身保护和法治，重中之重，它代表民主。
And that is why we will come out of the EU on October 31.
这就是为什么我们将于10月31日前退出欧盟。
Because in the end, Brexit was a fundamental decision by the British people that they wanted their laws made by people that they can elect and they can remove from office.
因为归根结底，脱欧是英国人民做出的一个根本性决定，他们希望自己的法律由他们可以选择的，并且可以罢免的人来制定。
And we must now respect that decision, and create a new partnership with our European friends - as warm and as close and as affectionate as possible.
我们现在必须尊重这一决定，并与我们的欧洲朋友建立一种新的伙伴关系——尽可能地温情、亲密和深情。
And the first step is to repeat unequivocally our guarantee to the 3.2 million EU nationals now living and working among us, and I say directly to you - thank you for your contribution to our society.
第一步是明确地重申我们对现在在我们中间生活和工作的320万欧盟国民的保证，我要直接对你们说——谢谢你们对我们社会的贡献。
Thank you for your patience, and I can assure you that under this government you will get the absolute certainty of the rights to live and remain.
感谢你们的耐心等待，我可以向你们保证，在本政府的领导下，你们绝对可以确信你们在这里生活的权力保持不变。
And next I say to our friends in Ireland, and in Brussels and around the EU: I am convinced that we can do a deal without checks at the Irish border, because we refuse under any circumstances to have such checks and yet without that anti-democratic backstop.
接下来，我要对我们在爱尔兰、布鲁塞尔和欧盟各地的朋友们说：我深信，我们可以达成不在爱尔兰边境设置检查站的协议，因为我们在任何情况下都拒绝进行这样的检查，即使没有反民主的后备方案。
And it is of course vital at the same time that we prepare for the remote possibility that Brussels refuses any further to negotiate, and we are forced to come out with no deal, not because we want that outcome - of course not - but because it is only common sense to prepare.
当然，与此同时，我们也必须为防止出现布鲁塞尔拒绝进一步谈判，我们被迫无协议退出欧盟的可能性做好准备，这并不是因为我们希望这个结果——当然不是——而是因为做好准备只是基于常理。
And let me stress that there is a vital sense in which those preparations cannot be wasted, and that is because under any circumstances we will need to get ready at some point in the near future to come out of the EU customs union and out of regulatory control, fully determined at last to take advantage of Brexit.
在此我要强调，非常重要的是，这些准备工作是不能浪费的，这是因为在任何情况下，我们都需要在不久的将来的某个时候做好准备，脱离欧洲海关联盟，摆脱监管控制，最终完全下定决心充分利用脱欧的优势。
Because that is the course on which this country is now set.
因为这就是这个国家现在所走的道路。
With high hearts and growing confidence, we will now accelerate the work of getting ready.
我们现在要以高热情和不断增强的信心，加快做好各项准备工作。
And the ports will be ready and the banks will be ready, and the factories will be ready, and business will be ready, and the hospitals will be ready, and our amazing food and farming sector will be ready and waiting to continue selling ever more, not just here but around the world.
我们的港口将准备就绪，银行将准备就绪，工厂将准备就绪，商业将准备就绪，医院将准备就绪，我们令人惊讶的食品和农业部门将准备就绪，时候一到就继续卖得更多，不仅在这里，而是要卖到全世界。
And don't forget that in the event of a no deal outcome, we will have the extra lubrication of the £39 billion, and whatever deal we do we will prepare this autumn for an economic package to boost British business and to lengthen this country's lead as the number one destination in this continent for overseas investment.
还有，别忘了，假如没有达成协议，我们将获得390亿英镑的额外补贴，无论我们最终达成什么样的协议，我们都将在今年秋季准备一个经济一揽子计划，以促进英国的经济发展，并延长我国作为这块大陆首选海外投资目的地的领先地位。
And to all those who continue to prophesy disaster, I say yes - there will be difficulties, though I believe that with energy and application they will be far less serious than some have claimed.
对于所有那些继续预测灾难性结果的人，我说是的——将会有困难，但是我相信，只要我们足够激情和勤奋，事情就远不会像某些人说的那么糟糕。
But if there is one thing that has really sapped the confidence of business over the last three years, it is not the decisions we have taken - it is our refusal to take decisions.
但是，如果说有一件事在过去三年里真的削弱了企业的信心，那就是我们拒绝做出决定，而不是我们所做的决定。
And to all those who say we cannot be ready, I say do not underestimate this country.
对于所有那些说我们无法做好准备的人，我要说的是不要低估这个国家。
Do not underestimate our powers of organisation and our determination, because we know the enormous strengths of this economy in life sciences, in tech, in academia, in music, the arts, culture, financial services.
不要低估我们的组织能力和决心，因为我们知道这个经济体在生命科学、技术、学术、音乐、艺术、文化、金融服务方面的巨大实力。
It is here in Britain that we are using gene therapy, for the first time, to treat the most common form of blindness.
正是在英国，我们实现了人类首次使用基因疗法来治疗最常见的失明。
Here in Britain that we are leading the world in the battery technology that will help cut CO2 and tackle climate change and produce green jobs for the next generation.
同样是在英国，我们在电池技术方面处于世界领先地位，这将有助于减少二氧化碳排放，应对全球气候变化，为下一代创造绿色就业机会。
And as we prepare for a post-Brexit future, it is time we looked not at the risks but at the opportunities that are upon us.
同时，当我们为脱欧后的未来做准备时，现在是我们不要只盯着风险，而是更要看重我们面临的机遇的时候了。
So let us begin work now to create free ports that will drive growth and thousands of high-skilled jobs in left-behind areas.
因此，让我们现在就开始着手创建自由港，以推动经济增长，并在落后地区创造数千个高技能工作岗位。
Let's start now to liberate the UK's extraordinary bioscience sector from anti-genetic modification rules, and let's develop the blight-resistant crops that will feed the world.
让我们现在开始把英国非凡的生物科学部门从反转基因监管的束缚中解放出来，让我们开发出能够养活世界的抗枯萎作物。
Let's get going now on our own position navigation and timing satellite and earth observation systems - UK assets orbiting in space, with all the long term strategic and commercial benefits for this country.
让我们现在开始依靠我们自己的位置导航、定时卫星和地球观测系统——这些都是在太空中运转的、为这个国家的长期战略和商业利益目的而建立的英国资产。
Let's change the tax rules to provide extra incentives to invest in capital and research.
让我们改变税收规则，为资本和研究投资提供额外的激励。
And let's promote the welfare of animals that has always been so close to the hearts of the British people.
让我们促进动物的福利，这些动物一直是如此接近英国人民的心。
And yes, let's start now on those free trade deals - because it is free trade that has done more than anything else to lift billions out of poverty.
是的，我们现在就从那些自由贸易协议开始吧——因为正是自由贸易在使数十亿人摆脱了贫困过程中发挥了比其他任何方面更大的作用。
All this and more we can do now and only now, at this extraordinary moment in our history.
所有这些以及还有更多，都是我们现在就可以做的，而且也只有在当下，在我们历史上这个非同寻常的时刻。
And after three years of unfounded self-doubt, it is time to change the record.
经过三年毫无理由的自我怀疑，现在是时候改变方向了。
To recover our natural and historic role as an enterprising, outward-looking and truly global Britain, generous in temper and engaged with the world.
是时候恢复我们作为一个有进取心的、外向的、真正全球化的、大气的，以及积极参与世界事务的天然和历史角色的时候了。
No one in the last few centuries has succeeded in betting against the pluck and nerve and ambition of this country.
过去几个世纪以来，赌英国的勇气、意志和雄心输的人，从来没有成功过。
They will not succeed today.
他们今天也不会成功。
We in this government will work flat out to give this country the leadership it deserves, and that work begins now.
本届政府将鞠躬尽瘁，努力发挥领导力，这项工作现在就开始了。
Thank you very much.
非常感谢。
(本文转载自BBC)
双语阅读英语演讲
