
英语演讲 | 清华大学留学生伊瓦娜2020年毕业演讲：我从未见过任何一个国家像中国这样
2020年6月26日
英语文摘


微信关注：田间小站 Professors, fellow graduates, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
尊敬的各位老师、各位毕业生、各位朋友们，女士们、先生们！
It is an honor for me to deliver this speech on behalf of the graduating students, and welcome you to this special Commencement Ceremony 2020.
很荣幸作为应届毕业生代表在此发言，欢迎大家出席2020年这一次特别的毕业典礼。

This is a unique moment. We are stepping up to another phase of our lives at a time of great hardship and global difficulties. Tsinghua keeps in mind its global family, and hopes this ceremony will help erase sad memories, refresh beautiful ones and add more splendid memories into our lives.
这是一个非常时刻，世事维艰，全球面临巨大的困难，而我们也即将迈向人生新的征程。学校关爱着遍布全球大家庭的每一位同学，希望今天的毕业典礼能够抹去我们的悲思，传递光明和希望，为我们的人生增添更多的精彩和美好的回忆。
Each of us have different stories to share, of amazing life experiences and challenges. Please allow me to briefly share with you the course of my journey which has made of me what I am today.
我们每个人都有不同的故事，包括令人惊叹的人生经历和挑战。请允许我简要与大家分享我的人生历程，是这段历程造就了今天的我。
I was born in the middle of war, which caused my family to move to Serbia as refugees for three years. When the war ended, we returned to Bosnia where I was unfortunately raised by a single parent. My mother, who is and will ever be my heroine, was the only figure who guided me, provided for me and kept me on the right track, in the hope of a better life. I owed her so much as she is solely responsible for a huge part of my success. I will always remember her teachings, “to complain less and always find solutions at the price of whatever it takes”, which brought me to China, an ancient land of new hopes.
我出生在战火纷飞的年代，因为战争，全家逃难到塞尔维亚，在那片土地上生活了三年，战争结束后，我们回到波斯尼亚。我在单亲家庭长大，母亲独自把我抚养成人，我的母亲，现在是，将来也永远是我的英雄。她是唯一指引我、养育我、引导我走上正确道路，希望我能过上美好生活的人。我欠她很多，我的进步和成绩，要归功于母亲。我永远铭记母亲的教诲：“少抱怨，要不惜一切代价找到解决方案”。是她激励我来到中国这个充满新希望的古老国度。
During the COVID-19 outbreak, I got the best opportunity to understand China. I saw millions of people united with one goal – to win the battle against this epidemic. I have never seen such a collective dedication from a nation, turning things for the better by sacrificing personal convenience on a grand scale. China’s governance and health care system proves to be one of the most efficient in the world. With a population of 1.4 billion, China not only has successfully controlled the transmission of the coronavirus but also assisted many other countries across the globe.
新冠肺炎疫情暴发后，使我获得了更深入了解中国的机会。我看到数以百万计的人们为抗击疫情这个共同目标而团结起来。我从未见过任何一个国家像中国这样，为扭转困境，人民心甘情愿团结一致牺牲个人利益，奉献个人力量。事实证明，中国的治理和医疗体系是世界上效率最高的体系之一。拥有14亿人口的中国不仅成功控制了新冠病毒的传播，还向世界许多国家提供了援助。
Everyone has a role to play in the battle against the virus. In Tsinghua, I played a tiny but necessary role: Staying on campus, studying online, cooperating during temperature checks and respecting social distancing measures. The rules and initiatives set by the university and Chinese government had everyone’s health and safety as first priority. This made me feel safe and confident that China was on the right track towards victory. Throughout this time, despite the immense challenges, Tsinghua has facilitated many online conferences and webinars, which helped me nurture more skills in my field of study. This helped me secure a job offer in Shenzhen which I am sure will lead to further growth and professional development.
在抗击疫情过程中，每个人都能发挥作用。每个人微小的力量汇聚在一起就是强大的力量。在清华，我也发挥了微小但必要的作用：留在校园，在线学习，配合体温检测，保持社交距离。学校和中国政府制定的规则和方案，都是把每个人的健康和安全放在首位。这让我感到安全，我相信中国方案必是通向成功的正确方案。在这段时间里，尽管面临巨大挑战，清华仍然开展许多在线会议和网络研讨，帮助我在自己的研究领域不断提升，培养了我很多新的技能，使我在深圳获得了工作的机会，我相信未来我一定会获得进一步的成长和专业发展。
Over the past year, I have made many friends. Besides my fellow students, the faculty and staff from my school, and the administrative teams of the university. I was actively engaged in searching international connections in the healthcare industry, first for China and later on for my country. Thanks to the network I built through my department in particular and Tsinghua in general, I was able to organize donation of personal protective equipment for my country.
在过去一年中，我结交了许多朋友，包括我的同学、学院老师和学校管理者。我还积极拓展医疗行业国际联系，开始是为了支持中国，后来是为了我自己的国家。通过在清华尤其是院系建立起来的网络，我成功为我的国家组织了个人防护装备捐赠。
Every graduating student has their own unique experiences and stories, but I believe we all have had a rewarding experience in Tsinghua. I would very much like to extend my personal as well the collective gratitude from graduating students to Tsinghua University, to the Chinese government, and to this great civilization with the wisdom of Self-discipline and social commitment.
每位毕业生都有自己独特的经历和故事，但我相信我们在清华都收获颇丰。在此，我谨代表我个人和全体毕业生，向清华大学、向中国政府，向这个自强不息、厚德载物的伟大文明表示衷心感谢。
Friends, we are now graduating from one of the world’s most prestigious universities. Tsinghua has been like a mother to us over the past months and years, guiding and nurturing us along the way, providing us with great vision and placing on us high expectations. So what comes next? Actions speak louder than words. Let us accept new challenges, think beyond our limits and keep in mind the ethics of life. Let’s undertake everything we can for the sake of unity, humanity and the international community. Let’s work together for a more promising future and prosperous world.
朋友们，今天，我们即将从这所享誉世界的学府毕业。在过去的岁月里，清华就像我们的母亲，一路引导、呵护我们，给了我们远见卓识，同时，也对我们寄予厚望。接下来怎么办？行胜于言！让我们迎接新的挑战，打破常规，创新思维，并坚守道德。让我们团结起来，为人类、为国际社会尽心竭力，让我们一起为更加美好的未来，为更加繁荣的世界而努力。
We will not let you down, Tsinghua, our forever alma mater!
清华，我们永远的母校，我们不会让您失望！
Fellow graduates of Class 2020, please accept my warm congratulations. I wish you all the best in your future prospects and endeavors.
热烈祝贺2020届的毕业生同学们！祝愿大家前程似锦，一帆风顺。
Thank you.
非常感谢！
（原文链接：自强不息 厚德载物 在挑战中寻求成功方案——毕业生代表伊瓦娜在2020年研究生毕业典礼上的发言）
双语阅读英语演讲
